# ROS File System + VM Notes

The ROS file structure that we will be using for the HW assignments will be structured as follows. The VMs that you will be provided with will already have two existing ROS workspaces containing most of the external dependencies you need for the class: `dependencies_ws/` and `interbotix_ws/`. 
You will need to create a new ROS workspace (which we’ll call `homework_ws`),to contain the code for homework assignments that we release plus some additional external dependencies (both of which we will provide to you). All of this code should be placed within the SAME `src/` folder of a single ROS workspace. More specifically, your ROS workspace should look something like this:

```
homework_ws/ [you will need to create this folder]
-> devel [will be auto-generated by catkin]
-> build [will be auto-generated by catkin]
-> src   [you will need to create this folder]
	-> rviz_camera_stream
	-> widowx250_moveit_config
	-> cs4750
	-> hw1_introduction
	-> hw2_kinematics
	-> hw3_state_estimation
	-> ...


interbotix_ws/ [will already be on the VM, but you will need to build it]
-> devel [will be auto-generated by catkin]
-> build [will be auto-generated by catkin]
-> src 
	-> interbotix_ros_core, etc.

dependencies_ws/ [will already be on the VM, but you will need to build it]
-> devel [will be auto-generated by catkin]
-> build [will be auto-generated by catkin]
-> src 
	-> cs4750_dependencies/
```

There are three external dependencies (ROS packages) that we will give you along with the release of HW1. 
- `rviz_camera_stream`
- `widowx250_moveit_config`
- `cs4750`

Each of these assignments is actually a ROS package. When you run `catkin build`, catkin, a ROS build tool, will detect the `CMakeLists.txt` and `package.xml` in each folder and build each folder as a ROS package.

To set-up the `interbotix_ws/`, run the following commands:
```
cd ~/interbotix_ws
catkin build
```
Once you build this, our `.bashrc` script will automatically source it every time you create a new terminal. 


To set-up the `dependencies_ws/`, run the following commands:
```
cd ~/dependencies_ws
catkin build
```
Once you build this, our `.bashrc` script will automatically source it every time you create a new terminal. 

## VM Screen Lock
It is important to disable the Screen Lock when setting up your VM. To do so, go to Settings > Power > Power Saving/Blank Screen and set the timeout to “Never”.
